November 19 testing the mics to see if they are
working November 19 testing the mics to see if they
are working
November 19
Testing a second time November twenty second
Albuquerque in New Mexico. Weather is getting
cooler outside and have the pleasure of chatting
with a fellow graduate of high school in orange
Mike Godwin try your mic test testing this is Mike
Godwin.
Mike why did you attend A&M instead of some other
school what led you to make that choice. Well,
although my father was not an Aggie, in fact my
father only took a couple of courses at Lamar
University in Beaumont, he had been a lifelong
Aggie fan and we attended a lot of football games as
I was growing up going to College Station and I
would say it was really the football game and the
traditions and the band and all of those things
that They convinced me and we were fortunate
enough to see the famous football game probably in
1965 that had the Texas special sitting in the end
zone when they pulled that trick off. And that sort
of cinched it for me that that's where I wanted to
go. That quarterback had been in my freshman
history 105 class. When you came as a freshman, how
did you get there? How did you arrive and what did
you bring with you? Well, I came in, you know, all
full of expectations and cockiness, I think a lot
of us did. And my first memories were when the
parents were standing around, how nice the
upperclassmen were. But as soon as the parents
were out of shouting range, it changed very
quickly. And I would say the first 24 hours at A&M
was a real adjustment. You came, your parents
brought you in the car? Brought me in the car. And
you didn't have a car? Didn't have a car, no. Never
had a car until my senior year. What gear, what
stuff did you bring? I don't even remember. It
wasn't much though. I mean you weren't allowed
that many things. I don't remember anything. And
you were in the Corps? In the Corps, in F-1. Why that
unit? I started out in engineering and that was an
engineering outfit and arrived on campus
actually that year. We arrived on campus before
school started because the first football game
that year was actually, as I recall, a couple days
before classes actually began. So they took a
bunch of high school kids that didn't know
anything about the Corps or military and all of a
sudden we were marching and trying to get ready for
that first football game. And describe your room
and your roommate, your official lady. My
official lady actually was a fellow named Edward
Hickey who came with us. There were, I actually
went to a very small Catholic high school in
Orange, Texas. There were I think 36 graduates out
of that class and four of us went to A&M. And I'd like
to think that the other three came because I
encouraged them to go. Edward Hickey was one of
them, and he and I were fish roommates that first
year. Where, what dorm and so forth?
I don't even remember. I believe it was, the whole
time I was there, we were even in the, I don't even
remember the actual names, dorm two and dorm four.
Okay. In fact, the core headquarters, I believe,
was in two. And I think that's where we first
started out my fish year. And what was the nickname
for your outfit? Did it have a nickname? The Finest
First, which is not even there anymore. And then my
fish year, we won, I think probably my first two
years, we were the General Moore outfit for Best
All-Around Outfits. make believe that I had known
nothing about what it was like to be a freshman at
Texas A&M describe your fish year. It was not
always a lot of fun. First of all, the whole thing.
It's amazing when equalizer when two things
happen when you get your head shaved, and
everybody's dressed to life. And I think it was a
very good experience. although it was a sobering
experience. Having grown up as an only child, I
wasn't used to having a lot of people telling me
what to do, also. And very quickly, having
upperclassmen yelling at you and whatever, it
really, it did, again, as I recall, high school,
coming from a small high school, and in high school
I was involved in everything, the student
government, and in a sense were sort of a big man on
campus, and all of a sudden you're this
insignificant little nothing at A&M, along with
all of your fellow members of your fish class. So I
think that had a lot to do with it. I think I was not
used to the yelling and screaming and the running
in the middle of the night and the other stuff. And I
think after about the first semester of my fish
year, it got a little bit better, but not a lot. I can
remember having many phone calls home and my
parents coming in on the weekend because I just
needed it to happen. But it was certainly a bonding
experience with fellow members of the fish class.
What about hazing? What events were there that
today would be classified as hazing? Well, I think
that stealing the CO's footlocker, which was a big
tradition back then, and presenting it on
Thanksgiving Day, there was a lot of hazing that
went on to try to uncover where that footlocker did
did y'all were you a party to that theft uh yes i was
and where did y'all where how'd you get it and
where'd you put it um you know what i don't even
remember how we got it or where we all i i can't
remember the fun parts all i can remember was
sweating in the middle of the night and three
o'clock in the morning doing um push-ups and stuff
in the showers and everything else is the ceo
acting very upset that we had taken his his um
footlocker but probably secretly hoping that no
one would crack so that his would be presented on
the field on Thanksgiving Day. About how long in
advance of that game was it? As I recall, it was
about two weeks of hell. Two long weeks. And how
many of you were involved in the theft? I think just
about the whole fish class was involved. We all
certainly paid the penalty for it. And I think the
CO was involved. Secretly glad when at the end no
one cracked me. What were some of the punishments?
You said push-ups in the wee hours of the morning.
Push-ups running first thing in the morning. It
was one of the few times that all of a sudden the
academic side of you, you're saying, we shouldn't
be doing this because it's hurting our
schoolwork. But had it not been the punishment
that we were receiving, it probably wouldn't have
been quite so concerning. How often was the board
used? You know what, actually, by the time I was
there, we didn't really have that. I can honestly
say that the old grab poops and that part of it,
there was very little of that. I think it was more
just straight physical torture. Did you fish
retaliate ever with some drown outs? A few, yes.
Who were the favorite targets?
Well, I think some of our
sophomore
leaders were the subject of those quite
frequently. Then there was always the story that I
don't know that it was a it ever happened, but it was
certainly making the rounds when we were there.
The upperclassmen
who quite a few people didn't like that lived on the
third or fourth floor of one of the dorms that
supposedly they snuck in and recreated his room on
the first floor secretly as he was sleeping and
without waking him up put him on the first floor and
then came in and made a mad show of getting ready to
throw him out the window thinking that he was being
thrown out of the third or fourth floor when in fact
he was only in the first floor and they tossed him
out the window i don't know if that was true or not
but that was When I was there, that was a story that
was going around that had happened. That it
happened that year? Sometime in that time. Oh,
really? Oh, that's good. That's a good Aggie
story. Describe chow hall, a typical chow hall
meal for a fish, your freshman year. You didn't get
a lot to eat by the time you got through going
through all the requests of the upperclassmen. as
a fish, I don't recall eating very much at all. I can
remember sneaking out on campus or spending a lot
of times at the MSC eating because we didn't have a
chance to eat a lot. In fact, I can remember my
parents saying, how come you're spending so much
money on food when your room and board is included
in what we're paying? But I will say that by the time
I got to be a sophomore, I put on about 20 pounds. I
can remember chicken fried steak and lots of milk
and make enough for not eating as a fish. What were
your favorite Aggie foods, dining hall foods?
Probably chicken fried steak. Lots of beef. Was
there a nickname for chicken fried steak? I've not
heard one. I don't think so. I don't recall. What
was your least favorite? I don't recall I even had a
least favorite. We had lots of beef though. What
about desserts? Must have been some that you
enjoyed. I
don't remember. Let's see. Nicknames for
beverages that were on the table. Tea.
I don't know. Did anybody ever have lemonade? Did
coffee have a nickname? I don't know. I think it was
mostly just water, iced tea, and milk. Mostly
milk. Describe beginning with whenever you got
up. Run me through a typical day of classes, a
Monday through Friday. What time did you get up and
what did you do as a freshman? It seems like
Reveille probably was around 6 o'clock. And I
think we probably fell out about 6.30, 6.45 to
march to breakfast. at Duncan. And then I think we
were probably back at the dorm about 730. I
remember shining a lot of shoes, using a lot of
Brasso, getting everything ready. Then
typically would, you know, go to morning classes.
I think that probably there were a lot of lunches
that I passed on just so I could avoid the midday
hazing at the lunch table. I can remember taking
lots and lots and lots of naps. It seems like we were
back in my hole.
And I think that probably the less visible you were
in many cases, the better. It's probably good just
to sort of slink in and slink out and not get hasty.
Then afternoons, what happened? Afternoons
actually, as I recall, was not bad. I mean, I know
that there was— remember intramurals. And I can't
remember how much intramurals happened as a fish
and how much it was after that. But I remember that
being actually an enjoyable part of the day. We did
that and then usually seemed like we would get
together then late in the afternoon and we'd march
or do military type drills and stuff until we went
in for the evening. And then you know, March to
evening chow, and would come back, and they were
pretty serious. Our outfit, again, because it was
a General Moore outfit, was pretty serious about
the grades, and being an engineering outfit, they
took the academic side of it pretty seriously. And
I can remember coming back, and we'd have study
hall, and spending a good amount of time studying
every night. All right, in terms of going to class,
for you and your classmates, how often did y'all
cut class as freshmen and sophomores? I would say a
fair amount my freshman year, my sophomore year.
For me personally, it was a lot. When you cut class,
where'd you go? MSC? Oh, we'd go to the MSC, drink a
lot of coffee. I can remember taking some
afternoon drives, and I can't even remember quite
where it was, but it was the place that you could
drive to that you could actually buy liquor. And,
you know, going and having a few beers in the
afternoon. Nothing a lot, but just going out for a
nice drive and, you know, picking up some beer and
coming back. I remember that a lot. And
having come from a
high school that grades came pretty easily to me.
And I thought that things were going to come pretty
easily to me my first two years. And frankly, was
probably not prepared as well as I should have and
wasn't as serious about academics as I should
have. So consequently, yes, we cut a lot of classes
my sophomore year. My roommate then, which was a
different roommate than my fish roommate, we were
probably bad influences on each other because we
were easily persuaded to go out and do something
else. All right. Can you share with me whether you
were involved or not? Can you share some jokes,
pranks, good bull that you knew about during your
student days? You mentioned moving the senior.
That's a good one. A lot of drown us. And was that
just dumping waste paper baskets, waste cans of
water? Yeah, water.
Yeah, taking them out to the quad and staking them
out and drowning them out. We did quite a bit of
that.
Right. On whom were the pranks played? Why were
they the targets? Well, when I was a fish was mostly
on water with the seniors. All seniors or water the
seniors? Yeah, we had in fact, our, our CEO, as I
recall, had a girlfriend in Austin that We
particularly liked getting a hold of him when his
girlfriend was around and embarrassing him. That
seemed to be where most of it occurred. Where would
you, during all your A&M career, where would you
all go for a good time on Saturday night? To
Huntsville. I mean, really, we didn't spend that
much time in College Station because I guess the
Dixie Chicken came after I graduated. In fact,
when we were in school, College Station was still a
dry county, so we didn't do anything there. I can
remember we'd have barbecues and things like
that, but generally on the weekends, we would
leave. And personally, having grown up on the
Texas-Louisiana border, with the drinking age at
that time being 18 in Louisiana, most of my buddies
liked to come to my house
right now you said Huntsville because there were
more girls over there okay all right did y'all go to
a whiskey bridge and buy alcohol yes
but there wasn't a lot going on I mean back you know
the 67 to 71 there weren't many girls on campus and
so if you wanted dates you you had to go to
Huntsville or go to Austin or go someplace else.
And probably a lot of Saturday nights were just
spent with the guys hanging out and playing poker
or going to a movie or going to the Did y'all go, was
it the sand pit, the rock pit? Earlier there was a
place down the Welborn Road and west a half mile or
so where there was a clay pit where there had been an
all-male group would go down there and drink beer
and skinny dip. That wasn't it. Who, during all of
your years, who were the memorable for you,
memorable teachers, advisors, counselors that
you now realize were important to you? There were
several. One of which, I don't remember his name,
but, and
this is kind of an interesting story, when after my
sophomore year, after two years spent in
engineering, My grades were such that they were,
had been on scholastic probation. And it was
really a lack of effort on my part in terms of not
attending to my grades the way I should have. That
after my sophomore year, it looked like there was a
chance that I wasn't gonna be able to come back in
the fall of my junior year. And one of my classes was
a civil engineering class that I had just barely
made a C. I was borderline between a C and a B, but
ended up getting a C. And to ensure that I would be
able to come back in the fall, I needed a B. And at the
time, the instructor in that course, I believe his
name was Lowry. He was a civil engineer. At the
time, he was either a graduate student or early on.
And I contacted him, and he said, I'll give you some
extra work to do during the summer, and if you
complete the work, then I'll change it right from C
to B. And I completed the work, and he did, and I was
able to stay in school. And about a year ago, I was
looking at the Texas Aggie, and there was an
article in there on professors that had been
selected as whatever distinguished faculty
members, and he was one of the The faculty members.
That's what these watches are. Oh, is that what
that is? Yeah. Do you know him? I remember him, yes.
And my wife at the time was one of the things I
probably regret. I probably still not too like to
do it. But she said you should drop him a note to tell
him. that he made a major role in you staying at A&M.
Yeah, I would endorse her because those notes are
touching to the person saying, okay, I did make a
difference. Good. 28 years later, you made a huge
difference. What about some others? Well, I had an
economics professor who I would have to say was one
of my favorite professors my whole four years at
A&M. His name is Bill Graham. He was an outstanding
professor. Describe what made him outstanding.
He was a great storyteller. He made a relatively
dry subject extremely interesting and described
it in a way that made complex economic principles
very easy to understand. He was always
accessible, always willing to help you. And I say
that well, long before he ever became well known as
Senator of the state of Texas, but he was just a top
notch professor. Another one of my favorites that
made a difference was after my sophomore year, I
changed to business, actually specialize in
marketing. And there was a female instructor in
the marketing department named Barbara Coe, who
was just an excellent I think she's in North Texas
now. Go ahead. And she made marketing extremely
interesting, and to the extent that at the end of my
sophomore year, I almost didn't make it to my
junior year by the time that I was a senior, taking
her courses, not because she was an easy grader,
but because she finally tapped into me wanting to
learn something. I actually made the dean's list,
and I attribute a lot of that to her. To whom did you
turn for academic advice during those years? At
the end of my sophomore year, I turned to Dean
Hubert, mostly because I knew he was from my
hometown, and he knew my parents, and frankly, I
was in need of some good advice as to what to do next.
You remember, this would have been in the spring of
69, which was not a good time not to be in school
Vietnam War and he was very instrumental in
helping me number one stay in school and number two
being able to transfer out of engineering make
believe that I didn't know him describe his manner
and style of advising you as I recall
as I recall he was a very courtly sort of person very
understanding, not an easy guy. I mean, he very
made me express my case very strongly as to why I
needed to change why should be allowed to stay in
school. But I think was understanding of the
circumstances and was wanting to help out as long
as I was willing to apply myself and try to get the
direction of my academic record change. Were
there, you've named a number, were there others,
other faculty members and advisors? I would think
those are the ones that really come to mind the
most. All the professors in the business
department were very good. Actually, Barbara
Coe's husband, I think his name was Teddy Coe, he
was the accounting professor, he was very good.
There was a business professor I believe his name
was Sam Hayes. He was also very, very good. The
business department has some outstanding
professors. What were the, in your day, what were
the expected rules of classroom behavior?
What did you think was expected of you while the
class was going on? Well, I think most of them,
particularly in my latter years, they very much
wanted class participation. But I don't recall it
being overly structured. I mean, I can remember
taking a few catnaps in a lot of classes and no one
ever running us out of class or anything. You know,
I think that back, too, in the late 60s, A&M campus,
as opposed to some of the other campuses, was still
a very respectful, you know, we didn't have the
riots or the demonstrations or the things that
other, and I think we were very respectful of our
teachers. Do you recall any kind of general sum of
what it cost you to attend? I would have to guess it
was probably a couple thousand dollars a year. And
where did that money come from? Did you earn some?
Well, I worked during the summers, every summer,
and I was expected to earn my spending money, and
then my parents paid for the tuition room and
board, and in fact, my parents...
insisted, and they probably could have afforded a
little bit more, but they insisted that I do that,
and then when my son went to college here five years
ago, even though I could afford it to pay even more,
I paid his room and board and insisted that he earn
his spending money because I thought that was a
good trade-off.
let's see the MSC tell me about the the MSC and its
role and what it represented to you and your fellow
students it probably of any building on campus
that had the most significance mainly as a meeting
place we probably spent hours and hours and hours
drinking coffee and smoking cigarettes and
talking about everything in the world I mean that
was I have wonderful, wonderful memories of the
MSC. I mean, that was the place where everybody
gathered and a lot of things took place. Any time
between classes, rather than going back to the
dorm, we almost always went over to the seat. I
mean, that was the thing to do. And I always find it
interesting that other campuses don't have a
central gathering place like that. It's a very
unique place. The fact that it is a memorial, I
think, made it even more special. When I was at the
Oklahoma State game a couple weeks ago, I took my
wife around. I said, now, this is part of the
original MSC, and this is where we used to drink
coffee, and this is what we did, and showed her
where the bowling alley used to be. Now, you are
gone before the expansion. That's what I thought.
Were you a member of any of the MSC activity groups?
I participated in... Let's
see. Were there any famous visitors to the campus
during your era that you recall? Notable
personalities. All right,
Guyon Hall. What happened and what activities did
you Which one was that? It was at the south end of
Military Walk. Was it torn down before you? No, it
was still there. That was the auditorium. But I
don't remember what we did there. I don't have any
recollection of that. Movies and chapel and
lecture series and so forth. I mean, I can remember
the name, and it seems like it was called one there,
but I don't know. All right. Let's see, were you
active in any of the religious events, religious
organizations?
Not active. We went to the Newman Club. Okay. In
fact, all four of us, because we went to Catholic
high school, were somewhat involved in that.
Describe – I don't have any description of a Newman
Club in that era in the file. Describe the Newman
Club. You know, I don't think there was – I remember
going to meetings, I can't even remember. Where
did y'all meet? Over at St. Mary's? Over across the
north side? Probably was, yeah. That's where we
went to church. And you went to Mass there. About
how many were present? What was a Mass like? There
was, I think, a pretty good turn. I mean, I would say
there were always, I would guess, hundreds of
students that were there. Pretty well attended.
Did you remember anything ever happening to you or
that you knew of other that was at all
inappropriate in relation to your being
Catholic? No, not at all. I can honestly say I don't
remember anything racial that ever happened. You
know, for me, I'd never been around a lot of
Hispanics. And that was always just very smooth,
there was not any tension. We had, I don't recall,
we didn't have a real high percentage of African
Americans in the Corps, but I don't recall that
there was any problems there with that. Were there
any Jewish students that you knew of? Right
now by your era the average student didn't get a
nickname did they? So years and years earlier
everybody had a nickname and one of the nicknames
for Jewish students was Jew boy and but it was not a
put-down, was not intended as such, and was not
understood to be such. And if you were from
Amarillo, you might have been sandy, because high
school was the Amarillo Golden Sandstorm. And if
you were short and wide, you might have been
chunky. but these were identifying but those were
gone by your era now did did you or any of your fellow
Catholic students go over for advice and counsel
at the Catholic Church of the Northgate And you
didn't hear of any? No. All right. Let's see. Tell
me about an Aggie football Saturday home game.
That was one of the most fun things. What did you and
your buddies do on a football weekend? Try to get a
date for one thing, which was not always easy. A lot
of my friends, if we didn't have a girlfriend at the
time, that was around there, and again, I don't
want many girls there. Probably early on, maybe
the first two years I was there, mostly you brought
girls from your hometown, and you had dates from,
and they would drive up, in my case, drive up from
Orange, or they'd drive up from Temple, or
wherever they were from, and, um, we'd get
together, usually they'd come in on a Friday
afternoon, and, um,